# AnyRare Whitepaper (Draft)

Author: [Panasun Sunanta (Bin)](mailto:panasun@i17.co)

Version: 0.1.2

Last update: Dec 17, 2021

## Abstract

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Stakeholders](#stakeholders)
- [Physical Assets Tokenization](#physical-assets-tokenization)
- [Incentive Benefit](#incentive-benefit)
- [ARA Pricing Formula](#ara-pricing-formula)
- [Collection Pricing Formula](#collection-pricing-formula)
- [Funding Management](#funding-management)
- [Governance Rules](#governance-rules)
- [Project Roadmap](#project-roadmap)
- [Contributors](#contributors)

### Introduction
Rare items are desirable to collect and invest in because they have sentimental value, are unique and in limited supply, are priced according to the collector's satisfaction, and have a low or no correlation to financial assets returns.

However, due to the nature of this asset class, it is only accessible to a select group of collectors.

- They must be audited by a specialist or curator prior to collection.
- Because they require physical asset transfers and a custodian, investment transactions are restricted.
- They are experiencing liquidity issues (Rich Assets, Poor Cash) as a result of their billions of unique sku; the prices of some of these sku are either too low or too high to invest in.

To address this issue, we propose the AnyRare platform, a decentrailzed platform for the tokenization of tangible assets. This design is based on the [Continous Organization](https://github.com/C-ORG/whitepaper) principle and the [Bancor Formula](https://github.com/Permissionless-Software-Foundation/token-liquidity/blob/master/docs/bancor-formulas/bancor-protocol-whitepaper.pdf) in order to incentive a benefit for all stakeholders.
### Stakeholders
- **Asset Founders:** those who own rare assets and send them to an auditor for minting, as well as storing them with a custodian.
- **Auditors / Curators:** a specialist in that asset class is responsible for certifying rare assets and minting them to the blockchain.
- **Custodians:** who is accountable for storing and delivering a physical rare asset upon request from the asset owner or collector.
- **Collectors:** a non-fungible asset owner who can hold an asset, initiate an auction, withdraw a physical asset, or fractionalize an asset through the creation of a collection.
- **Collection Shareholders:** A fractional stakeholders in a collection who may hold fractional shares in order to earn a capital gain or to earn a profit when the collection is sold to a collector.
- **AnyRare Owner:** anyone who has an ARA token is a fractional owner of the AnyRare platform. That can use their ARA to vote on AnyRare proposals and may receive a portion of the revenue generated by the AnyRare platform. Additionally they can utilize ARA as a medium of exchange to purchase fungible and non-fungible assets and to pay fees on the AnyRare platform.
- **Contributors:** everyone involved in the development of the AnyRare platform, such as founders, developers, business partners, advisers, employees, and influencers.

### Physical Assets Tokenization
The following describes the process of converting rare assets to AnyRare tokens.

1. The asset's owner (Asset Founder) initiates the minting process by sending the physical asset to the auditor. Additionally, they can choose a royalty price for subsequent sales.
2. An auditor certifies an asset, generates an audit report, and creates a non-fungible token on the blockchain using a smart contract.
3. The auditor collects minting costs from the asset's founder and transfers the asset to the custodian.
4. The custodian creates and signs the custodian contract in the blockchain's smart contract. The NFT token will be referred to as the smart contract, and those who own it will be referred to as collectors.
5. As a collector, they can hold an NFT token, launch an auction, withdraw a physical asset, or fractionalize an asset by establishing a collection in order to gain liquidity and collect collector fees when someone buys or sells a share.
6. To build a collection, collectors can specify the target price and collateral weight for any NFT assets in their portfolio to be settled in the collection. Then, using the Bancor Formula, a collection will be built to provide automated liquidity. The collector will receive a full portion of the collection.
7. If a purchaser wishes to acquire a section of this collection. The new share will be automatically generated by the smart contract, and the ARA used to purchase it will be locked in the smart contract as collateral. This procedure can be conducted immediately, without waiting for an offer. Please keep in mind that the number of collector shares will remain constant, but the collection's overall share will increase, diluting the collection portion but increasing the share value.
8. To sell a share, you can automate the process and obtain an ARA that secures in the smart contract. The portion of the collection that you sell will be burned, so decreasing the collection's overall share. Additionally, the Bancor Formula was used to govern the pricing of purchases and sales. Please note that if the value of the sale exceeds the ARA collateral reserved, the seller will get no more than the collateral reserved, and the remaining tokens will be burned to lower the collection's total quantity. This technique is intended to reduce the current collection price; if the current collection price is set too high and does not incentivize an investor, the existing shareholder may burn their token to reduce the current collection price.
9. Once an NFT token has been transformed to a collection, the collector is not permitted to withdraw the asset from the custodian. If someone wishes to withdraw an item from collection, they must bid at least the buyout target price set by the fractional shareholder and the auction procedure will begin.
10. Once a bid is placed at or over the buyout price, the auction will remain open for X days. The auction winner will acquire all NFT assets in this collection, and the ARA from the auction and collateral in the collection smart contract will be distributed equally to collection shareholders. Additionally, this collection will be destroyed. If the collection price is too low in comparison to its true value, this method enabled the arbitrageur to purchase the collection in order to unlock an NFT asset and withdraw from the custodian, at which point they can sell the asset in the real world for its true value.

### Incentive Benefit
AnyRare is designed to be a decentralized organization which anyone can contribute their own resources to its growth. Any party that participates in AnyRare should receive a benefit that is both reasonable and motivating. As a result, we've designed this benefit structure to encourage participation from all parties.

1. Asset Founders: Liquidity from first sale and royalty sale for next sales.
2. Collectors: Collect rare assets without owning them physically. Create a collection to obtain liquidity and the collector fee.
3. Collection Shareholders: Diversify an rare assets investment and receive instant liquidity.
4. Investors: You can become an Anyrare owner simply by purchasing ARA. As a result, you can either continue to fund collateral tokens to support the Anyrare platform's growth or decapitalize it by removing them.
5. Founders / Managers: Have the right to control management fund in order to growth anyrare platform and ecosystem.
6. Developers: Have the right to control management fund in order to develop anyrare platform.
7. Influencers: Earn commissions when your referrals purchase an assets NFT or collection shares.
8. Auditors / Curators: Earn an audit fee when the asset's founder sends the physical asset to mint NFT.
9. Custodians: Earn a custodian fee when a collector purchase NFT asset or withdrawing them to a physical asset.
10. Advisors: Obtain an ARA from the manager in order to provide advice.

### ARA Pricing Formula
The ARA was using a bonding curve formula to determine the price. To begin minting new ARA tokens, the minter must first transfer the collateral token (DAI) to the ARA smart contract. Then, according to the following formula, the new ARA token will be issued in total supply.

    IssuedToken = ARATokenSupply * ((1 + CollateralTokensReceived / CollateralTokenBalance) ^ (CollateralRatio) - 1)

The minter will be receive.

    MinterPurchaseReturn = IssuedToken * (1 - ManagementRatio)

Additionally, the remainder of the issued tokens will be distributed for management purposes.

    ManagementFund = IssuedToken * ManagementRatio

To withdraw, the withdrawer must transfer ARA tokens to the smart contract and will receive collateral tokens according to the formula below.

    WithdrawerSaleReturn = CollateralTokenBalance * (1 - (1 - ARATokensReceived / ARATokensSupply) ^ (1 / CollateralRatio))

Please keep in mind that this formula will dynamically adjust the overall quantity of ARA tokens based on the collateral tokens locked in the smart contract.

When Anyrare collects a fee, `Fee * (1 - BuyBackRatio)` is distributed to management funds and the remaining is burnend or buybacked in order to increase the ARA price. 

### Collection Pricing Formula
Due to the characteristics of rare assets, which include billion of skus, traditional liquidity models such as order books are unsuitable to offer sufficient liquidity. As a result, we will implement an automated market maker (AMM) method based on the bonding curve formula in orders to provide immediate liquidity to collection shareholders.

To create a collection, the collect will select NFTs to fractionalize, set the collection's target buyout price in ARA currency, initial collection token, collector fee, and collateral ratio. Then, the collector's NFTs will be transferred to a collection smart contract, and the collector will receive 100% of the collection shares.

The collector is not permitted to withdraw NFTs from the custodian at this point. To withdraw, the collector or anyone else must buyout the collection, at which point the collection's NFTs will be unlocked and transferred to the new owner.

To purchase collection shares, investors will transfer ARA to the collection smart contract, which will issued a new collection token using the following equation.

    IssuedCollectionToken = CollectionTokenSupply * ((1 + ARATokensReceived * (1 - AnyrareFee - ReferralFee)  / (ARATokenBalance + TargetBuyoutPrice)) ^ (CollectionCollateralRatio) - 1)

The investor will be receive.

    InvestorPurchaseReturn = IssuedCollectionToken * (1 - CollectorFee)

Additionally, the remainder of the issued tokens will be transfer to collector for royaly fee.

    CollectorRoyaltyReturn = IssuedCollectionToken * CollectorFee

To sell, the investor must transfer collections tokens to the smart contract and will receive ARA tokens according to the formula below.

    InvestorSaleReturn = Min(ARATokenBalance, (ARATokenBalance + TargetBuyoutPrice) * (1 - (1 - CollectionTokensRecived * (1 - CollectorFee) / CollectionTokensSupply) ^ (1 / CollectionCollateralRatio)) * (1 - AnyrareFee - ReferralFee))

If the current collection price is too high, other investors will be discouraged from investing. Shareholders in collection will be able to burn their tokens or set new target price in order to reduce the total supply and current collection price.

### Funding Management
The management fund was distributed to management wallets upon the minting of new ARA tokens in order to develop the platform and ecosystem. The owner of the management wallet may use these tokens freely to expand the Anyrare platform and ecosystem. By the way, ARA token owners have the ability to modify the list of management wallets and the percentage of each wallet that receives funds from the management fund.

### Governance Rules
Because the ARA token owner is also the owner of the Anyrare platform, they can vote and adjust these policies using their tokens.

- Anyrare platform fees, dividend payout ratios, or buyback ratios
- Referral fees
- Approve or deny auditors or custodians
- Make adjustment to the ARA collateral and management ratios
- Modify the management list
- Operate the ARA blockchain node
- Determine the voting rule for each policy

### Project Roadmap

### Contributors
- [Panasun Sunanta (Bin)](mailto:panasun@i17.co) (Lead Developer)
- [Guarantee Pra Co., Ltd.](http://g-pra.com) (Amulet Specialist Partner)
